Information for new Galaxy users (#595)
usegalaxy-eu/website: _posts/2021-02-23-new-users.md

---
site: freiburg
title: We want to welcome all new Galaxy users!
tags:
  - data
  - tools
  - training
supporters:
  - denbi
  - elixir
---

For all new Galaxy users, we want to summarize briefly our service.

__With Galaxy we offer you free, automatized analyses of (-omics) data for your lab!__

We would like to invite you to use our free data analysis gateway Galaxy for your daily work. To use Galaxy, you do not need any (bio)informatics skill or to install software. All you need is a browser such as Chrome or Firefox.

> Our Galaxy platform provides >2500 data analysis tools for e.g. __sequence analyses, genome annotation, epigenetics, metabolomics, proteomics, metagenomics, statistics and machine learning, and numerous visualizations__.

Reviewer: link to https://galaxyproject.eu/tools ?

Author: added

> The Galaxy Europe Team of the University of Freiburg runs the (BMBF funded) European Galaxy Server as one of the biggest public bioinformatics platforms with 10,000 CPU cores and already more than 25,000 users.

Reviewer: as part of de.NBI and ELIXIR?

Author: added

__Our offer for your lab:__
- __Free access to our data analysis platform Galaxy__ for the analyses of your high-throughput data: upload your raw files and get your results fast by our provided automatized workflows
- __Free access to necessary hardware resources__ incl. 250 GB storage - independent of the compute power of your local device
- __Free workflows__ for transparent, reproducible and standardized analysis of your data
- __Free training material__ for self-study to use for the analysis of your data. Galaxy requires no (bio)informatics skills. We provide high-quality training material with step-by-step instructions.
- __Free online training__ on various topics (see "events")
- __Fast availability of your results__ even for many samples due to a high degree of parallelization and automatization
- __Direct upload__ of your raw data to the European Nucleotide Archive (ENA) via the Galaxy platform
- __Support by experts__ of the Galaxy Team to automatize data import/export

> Much more information about Galaxy you can find in our [flyer](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1n7zTILNCdwqNKZqIvQHIzzRREfwqcGZX/view?usp=sharing).

Reviewer: (If you want to distribute the flyer to your community please contact us and we can send you a printed version. If you are interested in working with us to translate the flyer into your native language, get also in contact.)

Author: added

Important websites for you are the [Galaxy server](https://usegalaxy.eu) and the collection of [training material](https://training.galaxyproject.org).

Currently we are developing a monthly newsletter about Galaxy news. The newsletter can be subcribed [here](...).

> Here in the "news" section, you can find updates from our team. Under "events" we will announce Galaxy trainings.

Reviewer: link to news and events

Author: added

---
site: freiburg
title: We want to welcome all new Galaxy users!
tags:
  - data
  - tools
  - training
supporters:
  - denbi
  - elixir
---

> For all new Galaxy users, we want to summarize briefly our service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For all new Galaxy users, we would like to summarize briefly our service.
```

__With Galaxy we offer you free, automatized analyses of (-omics) data for your lab!__

> We would like to invite you to use our free data analysis gateway Galaxy for your daily work. To use Galaxy, you do not need any (bio)informatics skill or to install software. All you need is a browser such as Chrome or Firefox.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We would like to invite you to use our free data analysis gateway Galaxy for your daily work. To use Galaxy, you do not need any (bio)informatics skills or to install any software. All you need is a browser such as Chrome or Firefox.
```

Our Galaxy platform provides >2500 data analysis [tools](https://galaxyproject.eu/tools) for e.g. __sequence analyses, genome annotation, epigenetics, metabolomics, proteomics, metagenomics, statistics and machine learning, and numerous visualizations__.
The Galaxy Europe Team of the University of Freiburg as part of [de.NBI](https://www.denbi.de) and [ELIXIR](https://elixir-europe.org/communities/galaxy) runs the (BMBF funded) European Galaxy Server as one of the biggest public bioinformatics platforms with 10,000 CPU cores and already more than 25,000 users.

__Our offer for your lab:__

> - __Free access to our data analysis platform Galaxy__ for the analyses of your high-throughput data: upload your raw files and get your results fast by our provided automatized workflows

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [__Free access to our data analysis platform Galaxy__](https://usegalaxy.eu/) for the analyses of your high-throughput data: upload your raw files and get your results fast by our provided automatized workflows.
```

> - __Free access to our data analysis platform Galaxy__ for the analyses of your high-throughput data: upload your raw files and get your results fast by our provided automatized workflows

Reviewer 2: This point about "provided automatized workflows" is a bit strange. Sounds like we have workflows available for everything?

> - __Free access to necessary hardware resources__ incl. 250 GB storage - independent of the compute power of your local device

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- __Free access to necessary hardware resources__ incl. 250 GB storage - independent of the compute power of your local device.
```

> - __Free workflows__ for transparent, reproducible and standardized analysis of your data

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- __Free workflows__ for transparent, reproducible and standardized analysis of your data.
```

Reviewer 3: do we have a link for this? this one maybe? https://usegalaxy.eu/workflows/list_published

> - __Free training material__ for self-study to use for the analysis of your data. Galaxy requires no (bio)informatics skills. We provide high-quality training material with step-by-step instructions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [__Free training material__](https://training.galaxyproject.org/) for self-study or to analyse your own data. Galaxy requires no (bio)informatics skills. We provide high-quality training material with step-by-step instructions.
```

> - __Free online training__ on various topics (see "events")

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- __Free online training__ on various topics (see our [Events](https://galaxyproject.eu/events) section).
```

> - __Fast availability of your results__ even for many samples due to a high degree of parallelization and automatization

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- __Fast availability of your results__ even for many samples due to a high degree of parallelization and automatization.
```

> - __Direct upload__ of your raw data to the European Nucleotide Archive (ENA) via the Galaxy platform

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- __Direct upload__ of your raw data to the European Nucleotide Archive (ENA) via the Galaxy platform.
```

Reviewer 3: why mentioning ENA and not other ways of getting data?

> - __Support by experts__ of the Galaxy Team to automatize data import/export

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- __Support by experts__ of the Galaxy Team to automatize data import/export.
```

Reviewer 3: support only on that? also helping with the creation of workflows? or not really?

> Much more information about Galaxy you can find in our [flyer](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1n7zTILNCdwqNKZqIvQHIzzRREfwqcGZX/view?usp=sharing). If you want to distribute a printed version of the flyer to your community, please contact us. If you are interested in working with us to translate the flyer into your native language, get also in contact.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Much more information about Galaxy you can find in our [flyer](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1n7zTILNCdwqNKZqIvQHIzzRREfwqcGZX/view?usp=sharing). If you want to distribute a printed version of the flyer to your community, please [contact us](mailto:galaxy@informatik.uni-freiburg.de). If you are interested in working with us to translate the flyer into your native language, get also in contact.
```

> Much more information about Galaxy you can find in our [flyer](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1n7zTILNCdwqNKZqIvQHIzzRREfwqcGZX/view?usp=sharing). If you want to distribute a printed version of the flyer to your community, please contact us. If you are interested in working with us to translate the flyer into your native language, get also in contact.

Reviewer 3: the flyer might be updated for online events, but we can always update the link in the future

Author: in the flyer we do not have any event just infos about our work. Usually we are printing 1000 of them

Reviewer 3: sorry I didn't mean that. I meant having a format more suitable to share in online events, instead of several pages that you need to assemble in your mind, having a one-page flyer that fits on the screen. This could be added to slides, attached to emails, etc. discussed a bit about it yesterday with @bebatut

> Important websites for you are the [Galaxy server](https://usegalaxy.eu) and the collection of [training material](https://training.galaxyproject.org).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To start analysing data, you can log into the [European Galaxy server](https://usegalaxy.eu) and learn how to use it in the [Galaxy Training Network](https://training.galaxyproject.org).
```

> Currently we are developing a monthly newsletter about Galaxy news. The newsletter can be subcribed [here](...).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Currently, we are developing a monthly newsletter about Galaxy news. The newsletter can be subscribed [here](https://lists.galaxyproject.org/lists/germany.lists.galaxyproject.org/).
```

Reviewer 3: This post is rather general, so asking people to join the German mailing list might be strange

Author: mhm, right. Maybe we could modify it like this:

Currently, we are developing a monthly newsletter about German Galaxy news

> Here in the ["news"](https://galaxyproject.eu/news) section, you can find updates from our team. Under ["events"](https://galaxyproject.eu/events) we will announce upcoming Galaxy trainings.

Reviewer 3: I am not sure about this sentence... the events page was mentioned above and news, they are already in, so...

Author: then include links there?

> If you have further questions, please contact our team: contact@usegalaxy.eu

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have further questions, please [contact our team](mailto:contact@usegalaxy.eu).
```

Reviewer 3: this is not the same one that I used above, what should be the standard one for people to get in touch?

Author: we have contact@ and galaxy@informatik....
dont know which one we want to push? @bgruening ?

Reviewer: contact
